good place to live in. He never sat moping or despondent, but took things as they were, knowing that God could and

Would make them better. When the heaviest surge of calamity cane upon him, he met it with as cheerful a countenance

as ever a bather at the beach met the incoming Atlantic, rising up on the other side of the wave stronger than when it
smote him. Without ever being charged with frivolity, he sang, and whistled, and laughed. He knew about all the cheerful
tunes that were ever printed in old ‘New Brunswick Collection,’ and the ‘Strum Way,' and the sweetest melodies that
‘Thomas Hastings ever composed. | think that every pillar in the Somerville and Bound Brook churches knew his happy
voice. He took the pitch of sacred song on Sabbath morning, and lost it not through all the week. | have heard him sing
plowing amid the aggravations of a ‘new ground,' serving writs, examining deeds, going to arrest criminals, in the house
and by the way, at the barn and in the street. When the church choir would break down, everybody looked around to see
if he were not ready with Woodstock, Mount Pisgah, or Uxbridge. And when all his familiar tunes failed to express the joy
of his soul, he would take up his own pen, draw five long lines across the sheet, put in the notes, and then to the tune that
he called ‘Bound Brook! begin to sing:

‘As when the weary trav'ler gains The height of some o'erlooking hill, His heart revives if, ‘cross the plains, He eyes his
home, tho' distant still:

‘Thus, when the Christian pilgrim views, By faith, his mansion in the skies; The sight his fainting strength renews, And
wings his speed to reach the prize.

tis there," he says, "I am to dwell With Jesus in the realms of day: There | shall bid my cares farewell, And he will wipe
may tears away."

"But few families fell heir to so large a pile of well-studied note-books. He was ready, at proper times, for all kinds of
innocent amusement. He often felt a merriment that not only touched the lips, but played upon every fibre of the body, and
rolled down into the very depths of his soul, with long reverberations. No one that | ever knew understood more fully the
science of a good laugh. He was not only quick to recognize hilarity when created by others, but was always ready to do
his share toward making it. Before extreme old age, he could outrun and outleap any of his children. He did not hide his
satisfaction at having outwalked some one who boasted of his pedestrianisna, or at having been able to swing the scythe
after all the rest of the harvesters had dropped from exhaustion, or at having, in legislative hall, tripped up some villainous
scheme for robbing the public treasury. We never had our ears boxed, as some children | wot of, for the sin of being

happy. In long winter nights it was hard to tell who enjoyed sportfulness the better, the children who romped the floor, or
the parents who, with lighted countenance, looked at them. Great indulgence and leniency characterized his family rule,
but the remembrance of at least one correction more emphatic than pleasing proves that he was not like Eli of old, who
had wayward sons and restrained them not. in the multitude of his witticisms there were no flings at religion, no
caricatures of good men, no trifling with things of eternity. His laughter was not the ‘crackling of thorns under a pot,' but the
merry heart that doeth good like a medicine. For this all the children of the community knew him; and to the last day of his
walking out, when they saw him coming down the lane, shouted, ‘Here comes grandfather!’ No gall, no acerbity, no
hypereriticism. If there was a bright side to anything, he always saw it, and his name, in all the places where he dwelt, will
long be a synonym for exhilaration of spirit.

"But whence this cheerfulness? Some might ascribe it ail to natural disposition. No doubt there is such a thing as

sunshine of temperament. God gives more brightness to the almond tree than to the cypress. While the pool putrefies
under the summer sun, God slips the rill off of the rocks with a frolicsomeness that fills the mountain with echo. No doubt
constitutional structure had much to do with this cheerfulness. He had, by a life of sobriety, preserved his freshness and
vigor. You know that good habits are better than speaking tubes to the ear; better than a staff to the hand; better than
lozenges to the throat; better than warm baths to the feet; better than bitters for the stomach. His lips had not been
polluted, nor his brain befogged, by the fumes of the noxious weed that has sapped the life of whole generations,

sending even ministers of the Gospel to untimely graves, over which the tombstone declared, ‘Sacrificed by overwork in
the Lord's vineyard, when if the marble had not lied, it would have said, ‘Killed by villainous tobacco!’ He abhorred
anything that could intoxicate, being among the first in this country to join the crusade against aleoholic beverages. When
urged, during a severe sickness, to take some stimulus, he said, ‘No! If | am to die, let me die sober!' The swill of the
brewery had never been poured around the roots of this thrifty almond. To the last week of his life his ear could catch a
child's whisper, and at fourscore years his eyes refused spectacles, although he would sonmetines have to hold the book

off on the other side of the light, as octogenarians are wont to do. No trembling of the hands, no rheum in the eyes, no
knocking together of the knees, no hobbling on crutches with what polite society terms rheumatism in the feet, but what
everybody knows is nothing but gout. Death came, not to fell the gnarled trunk of a tree worr-eaten and lightning-blasted,
but to hew down a Lebanon cedar, whose fall made the mountains tremble and the heavens ring. But physical health

could not account for half of this sunshine. Sixty-four years ago a coal from the heavenly altar had kindled a light that
shone brighter and brighter to the perfect day. Let Almighty grace for nearly three-quarters of a century triumph in a man's
soul, and do you wonder that he is happy? For twice the length of your life and mine he had sat in the bower of the